.TH BLIMP 7
.SH NAME
blimp - package manager internals
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.BR "Server-side files hierarchy"
.RS
Blimp downloads packages from a HTTP server. The server-side files hierarchy is designed in such a way to allow hosting packages without requiring a specific server program.

Example:
.nf
.B - metadata
.B - stable/
.B "    "- index
.B "    "- dist/
.B "        "- x86_64/
.B "            "- <package-name>_<package-version>.tar.zstd
.B "            "- <package-name>_<package-version>.meta
             ...
.B "        "- x86/
             ...
         ...
.B "    "- i18n/
.B "        "- en/
.B "            "- <package-name>_<package-version>/
                 ...
             ...
.B "        "- fr/
             ...
         ...
.B "    "- src/
.B "        "- <package-name>_<package-version>/
             ...
         ...
.B - nightly/
        ...
.fi

.B metadata
contains information about the server, in TOML format

.B dist/
contains all branches.
.B stable
is the canonical name for production-ready packages, while
.B nightly
is for unstable packages

.B index
contains the list of all packages and their supported architecture, in TOML format. It is used by the client to determine the list of packages present on the server

.B dist/
contains packages (*.tar.zstd) and their metadata (*.meta), sorted by CPU architecture

.B i18n/
contains internationalization files, sorted by locale

.B src/
contains package sources

When updating the packages list, the client first looks at
.B metadata
to determine the list of branches, and then it looks at the
.B index
in each, containing the list of packages.

To download a package, the client looks up the required version in its local copy of the server's index. Then it downloads the
.B .meta
file, to look at the required dependencies. Dependencies are looked-up recursively until they are all found. Then, the client downloads all packages and installs them.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBblimp\fP(1), \fBblimp-builder\fP(1)
